>> Kadi Kraman: Now to get started,
we're going to start a new project.
So open your terminal, and like I said,
you need to have node installed.
If you do node-v, you are looking for
a long-term support version of nodes.
That's always what you should be using so
long-term support versions
are even numbers.
So right now it's gonna be a 18,
that's getting a bit old now, but
20, 22 in the future 24, etc.
So I'll be using node 20 here.
And the other thing you
need is a package manager.
So I'm going to be using Yarn.
>> Kadi Kraman: In particular,
I'm gonna use Yarn Classics, so Yarn 1.22.
But you can use npm, so
this comes pre-installed with Node.
You can use yarn classic like I am.
You can use yarn modern, pnpm, bun, etc.
So any of these will work.
And you can check
the documentation here for
any neurons we might have if you're using
a different package manager than me.
In particular,
Yarn Classic is getting a bit old now, but
for React Native projects,
a lot of people still prefer it.
And the reason for it is that Yarn Modern,
and it's the same problem with pmpm,
they introduced this plug-in
pay mode of node linking,
where it basically gets rid
of your node modules folder.
And for React Native projects, that's
problematic, because a lot of the time,
from the native iOS and
Android directories, we link directly to
files in the node modules,
which obviously breaks with this model.
There is a workaround, so if you have this
node linker, in your Yarn RC or the same
for pnpm, if you use the PMPRC and use the
node linker hosted, then it, it'll work.
So you can still use these package
managers, but, just FYI and
that's why I'm currently using Yarn.
So the command to start create a new React
Native project is npx create-expo-app.
So npx, you don't need to install npx,
npx is something that you get by
default when you install Node.
It's like a Node package executor.
And it basically lets you execute
packages that are available in
the node packages without installing
them globally on your machine.
And whenever you're doing a new command,
I like to run it with -Help initially.
And this prints out some help information
that usually tells you it's just
a convention, but it usually tells
you what you can do with this script.
So in particular here what's useful for
us is you can see that you can
pass in a template or dash t.
So by default when you npx create expo
app it uses the default template and
the default template
isn't blank as of stk 51.
It comes with navigation pre-installed and
some styling and
a bunch of things to just get you started
so you wouldn't start from blank and
wouldn't be overwhelmed with choices.
>> Kadi Kraman: But in this workshop,
we wanna start from scratch and
build everything as we go on.
And the second thing that we're interested
in is this thing on the bottom here,
which tells you how to create this package
at this new project using your preferred
package manager.
So if you do npx create expo app it
actually uses node by default and
you get a package lock.
In my case I want to use yarn, so I'm
going to copy this yarn, create expo app.
Give it a name, so
I'm gonna call it taskly and
dash T which will make sure that we
get the prompt to choose our template.
So from here we have an option and let's
choose the blank typescript template.